hey check this out it's the only place
in the world
where you'll find a giant pyramid-shaped
construction
jetting out of the city skyline but what
looks like a futuristic spaceship
is actually a luxurious hotel but don't
rush to book a deluxe room though
this hotel hasn't hosted a single guest
in its 33-year history
the 105-story rongyong hotel was planned
to be the tallest in the world
and north korea's greatest achievement
it's more than
two and a half times the size of the
great pyramid in giza
nearly four million square feet of floor
space you could almost fit vatican city
in this one building
today the tallest hotel in the world
according to guinness is the 75-story
jivorah in dubai
the roon yang hasn't taken that title
but it did earn itself a different
record
after 33 years of development it
currently stands as the tallest
unoccupied building on the planet
nicknamed
the hotel of doom it looms over the
capital city of pyongyang
and has a long mysterious history
rung yang means capital of willows and
it's an ancient name for pyongyang
once finished the hotel could house up
to 3 000 guests
eight of its floors are supposed to
rotate and have revolving restaurants
with an
unbeatable view of the city and on the
very top
stands a massive cone twice the size of
the great sphinx
a magnificent record-breaking hotel in
the heart of the capital
would not only bring tourists into the
city but also foreign investors
so what went wrong
construction began in 1987.
might not seem all that long ago but
this was back before the smartphone was
invented
the deadline for the hotel's completion
was tight 1989
just in time for the world festival of
youth and students
being held in pyongyang that year
unfortunately due to some engineering
problems
more details on that in a bit it didn't
meet its important deadline
it was just the beginning in a series of
unfortunate events
the next planned opening was set for
and once again problems with
construction and a lack of materials
cropped up
the hotel badly needed financial
investment because building
such huge constructions takes equally
massive amounts of cash
most of the structure had been completed
by this point but construction was
stopped in such a hurry
that they accidentally left a crane on
the top it
stayed there for nearly two decades
for 16 years the empty carcass of this
hotel with big dreams
was left in the center of the city in
construction started once again after a
phone company from abroad agreed to fund
the project
in return the hotel would also serve as
a phone tower
heck of a deal the new completion date
was set for 2012.
everything was going smoothly the
rongyong hotel was now covered with
radiant glass panels
and the old rusty crane was finally
removed from the top
but as the outside was looking more and
more polished with each passing day
a few pictures of the interior showed
almost no work done inside
nothing but concrete stairs balconies
and pillars
it looked more like an ancient tomb than
a luxurious hotel
yet another planned opening date passed
and the hotel's construction was
mysteriously halted again
this time the building's exterior looks
sleek with a new addition of phone
antennas on the top work picked up and
the new
new new opening date would be in 2013
then it was changed to be a partial
opening
and then it got cancelled all together
the hotel of doom was abandoned once
again
to this day it has never hosted a single
guest
only a handful of people have been
inside just to see a few floors and
rooms
the rest is off limits
but then out of nowhere the hotel came
back to life in 2017
well it wasn't open but construction
started once again
and in 2018 the giant hotel found a new
purpose
thousands of leds were installed on its
facade
turning it into a giant screen from time
to time the lights show a four-minute
program about the country and its
current situation
it's usually on during major events in
the city
okay so you've probably lost count of
how many times i said
construction problems so here's the
lowdown on those
one of the reasons this particular
building was so hard to complete
was in its structure and material most
skyscrapers are made of steel instead of
concrete
a steel frame is relatively lightweight
yet sturdy enough to hold the weight of
the entire building
though concrete is more fireproof
whether it was a conscious choice
or a lack of steel leaving essentially
no choice
the roongyong hotel was made of
reinforced concrete
the material choice also dictated the
chosen design and shape
a three-winged pyramid was the only way
they could achieve the planned
record-breaking height
each of the three wings is 330 feet long
a little less than the length of a
football field yet they're just 60 feet
thick enough to fit a bowling alley this
design makes the building look colossal
yet it doesn't have much floor space for
its size
the shape might have been dictated
solely by the material used and its
plant height
or it could have been a conscious choice
and an attempt at not a pyramid
but a mountain after all mountains play
a huge mythological and cultural role in
the country
they're part of the national emblem and
even mentioned in the anthem
it's actually one in particular page two
mountain in the north
koreans believe this is where their
nation was born so the place holds a
sacred meeting
the 9000 foot active volcano has a
caldera lake
where many locals believe a loch like
monster dwell
but i digress the hotel's concrete
structure choice
was also the basis of many rumors
regarding its safety
after a concrete apartment building
collapsed in pyongyang
a lot of people started thinking the
hotel would meet the same fate
after all concrete already wasn't the
best choice for building a skyscraper
and a sudden halt of construction just
added fuel
but experts that had been inside the
hotel assured the public that the
structure
looks safe and sound and shouldn't have
any problems
another issue with the concrete
construction is the interior utilities
unlike with steel when using concrete
every single
utility like ventilation electricity and
water lines
had to be planned ahead of time but
since the 1980s
technology has made a huge leap forward
making those original plans
obsolete that can inflate the
construction budget to enormous sizes
despite the problems the hotel became a
huge part of the national identity
the pyongyang folklore park is famous in
the whole country
for its own mini versions of all
national symbols
and among ancient palaces or models of
famous mountains
you can also find a miniature replica of
the ryongyong hotel
many local performance groups like to
host their shows in front of the hotel
and use it as a beautiful backdrop
and for now that's all it is the hotel
stands empty
hosting only light shows on its facade
but
it looks like we could be seeing
continued development soon
just recently a sign was added above the
entrance
it simply says the ryung young hotel in
english and korean
and local tour guides are already
talking about the hotel's upcoming
opening
perhaps in the next few years we'll see
over three decades worth of development
finally turn into a big opening imagine
those empty concrete insides
decorated with lavish furniture guests
and a staff
buzzing about excitedly otherwise it'll
become a new addition to a list of
unfinished projects like highways and
parks in the country
and the hotel of doom will continue to
loom over the city like a shadow
a constant reminder of dreams left
unfulfilled
where you can never check in and you can
only check it out